All right let's go back to basics for a minute here and just to kind of remember a few things.
Charge.
We're going to look at the motion of charges in a minute.
But the concept of charge first thing is it's quantized for our purposes that means that the elementary
charge you often call that even the elementary charge is called and the magnitude of is 1.6 times 10
to the negative 19 and charge is measured in cool homes.
Now we typically look at two types of things we look at electrons
and we're going to look at electron motion a lot because we're looking at the motion of electrons in
circuits.
THAT'S WHAT DOES THE that's what moves in electric circuits.
And the charge of electrons is simply minus the elementary charge.
We can look at protons for example protons have the same magnitude.
However they're positive the elementary charge since the charge is quantized it means even if you have
a some object here with a whole bunch of charge on it could have an answer draw a whole bunch of different
electrons on it.
The total charge of this object we can call it q big.
Q That must be equal to a certain number depending on how many of these lines I've drawn here how many
electrons are on here multiplied by the elementary charge.
And again I can use positive or negative.
But this would here be the total charge of that object.
It's always some number I don't know 10 20.
Ten of the six
this huge number multiplied times the elementary charge.
So these are just some basic definitions here.
Just to remember.
Now let's just consider one electron here out in space.
So here's an electron that really I want to make it move.
So how would I make this electron move.
Well I'd make it move by producing an electric field.
So let's imagine now produce an electric field for example pointing from the right to the left side.
If I place this electron in that electric field you should remember from electrostatics that you're
going to have a force acting on this electron the force acting on this electron is going to be F and
it's simply given by the magnitude of the charge which is e multiplied by the magnitude of the electric
field which is uppercase.
That's the total force acting on this charge.
I already know the direction the direction is always opposite of the electric field.
If the charge is negative.
Newton's second law says you add up all those forces.
And that has to be equal to mass times acceleration.
So the acceleration now of an electron placed inside a an electric field can be given by lowercase E
which is the charge that electron my 1.6 times 10 of the negative 19 the magnitude of the electric field
and divided by the mass that's the acceleration of a free electron when you place it in an electric
field.
And that's important because in circuits we're going to want to make charges move from one direction
to another.
And the way we produce electric fields is by using a battery.
Now in this case here this electron would simply accelerate which means that its velocity would constantly
increase.
Right.
Imagine if it started from rest after 10 seconds its speed would be pretty big after 20 seconds its
speed would be even bigger.
We're going to see that real conductors the it's not really what happens because the electrons are not
free in space.
So let's go ahead and look at that picture from a microscopic viewpoint.